It was Alan Shivers, as I recall, at the time. And
then, of course, any time we had two or three
generals come to the campus, we acted as the honor
guard for. And there was no malarkey, no pranks or
jokes. No. About RVs. No. And as far as you know, the
selection always was on the basis of quality. I
assume because I didn't have any friends. I mean
anybody that, you know, I don't know how they
picked them. During your years at A&M, who were the
notable campus administrators? Well, let's see.
We had, you remember the freshmen were under the
basic division and it was, the dean was Bertram.
Was that who it was? I'm not sure. It was the dean of
the basic division. I think it was Bertram or
Bertrand. Of course, we had two presidents,
Harrington and Morgan. Morgan came in my junior
year.
Eide Trotter. Eide P. Trotter. Abbott. John Paul
Abbott. Bolton. Bear Tracks Bolton.
Was Pinky Downs? Oh, he and his daughter are still
there, all over the campus, yeah. What did you all
think of Pinky? I just thought he was a nice guy. I
wondered why he was spending his life doing what he
was doing there. He didn't do anything that I know
of. I don't know what he did. He was the official
greeter. That's what I said. And apparently, I'm
putting two and two together and getting 4,000. He
had been on the board of directors back in the 20s as
a young man and then during the Depression or soon
thereafter his bank went broke and apparently
this was to give him something to do. Is that what it
was? Yeah. Like we never saw him sad. He was always
upbeat and positive. And he was all over the
campus, you know. Who were the, as you look back,
who were your closest buddies? They were always
people in my outfit, people from here that stayed.
Aggie friendships last, don't they? Oh, yeah.
Why? I don't know, but I mean, you just build a
relationship with them. And in your major, were
there some teachers that were really, as you
looked? Oh, I had some magnificent professors.
You know, they were more than just professors.
They were interested in you. I had, as I said, what
was his name? Was it Norman Rose? Mm-hmm.
Dillingham, Hallmark. I didn't know him. Hughes,
who was head of the department at the time, I didn't
know him that well.
Mike, what was his name,
Albert Drews, great guy. What were some of the
courses that were for you later you realized were
important?
Oh,
I think the courses that I had my senior year and in
graduate school
were probably very important. I think the basic
courses that I took probably in my sophomore year,
freshman, sophomore year, and then the graduate
school courses, is it look in hindsight is there
anything that a m didn't do or is there any area of
your uh profession that maybe didn't get enough
attention well i don't think i think a m gave me for
what i did i think texas a m one instilled in me as i
said the ability to pursue to keep at it never give
up I think to be I think to work hard I studied harder
than I'd ever studied in my life and I think that
that in itself now I know there was a lot of students
down there a lot of my friends that took other
degrees that didn't work too hard I don't know how
it worked out for them And the emphasis always was
on the real world, wasn't it? That's right. Not the
theoretical, but the real. Texas A&M represented
to me the opportunity for relatively
modest people to achieve a goal and a dream that I
don't think we could have gotten anywhere.
In terms of building that spirit, we mentioned
Silver Taps. Muster, do you remember Aggie Muster
when you were? Where was it held? Let's see.
Sometimes I know MSC Steps. That's where it was,
MSC Steps, early on. Since you graduated, have you
gone to Muster's? No. I mean, I've gone to musters
here. That's what I mean. No, no. Yeah, yeah. Okay.
I'm going to do the one this spring. That's what you
told me you were going to do. I'm looking forward to
it. I don't know anybody else that does anything
like that. I don't think so. In the world. I think
A&M probably at least makes a big attempt to stay
closer to its students. It's kind of ironic. I kind
of irritated Diana.
You may have probably never heard this story, but
when I was in office, their athletic budget was in
huge trouble. She had borrowed, I think, several
million dollars out of the student activity and
the state auditor that was on their way out. So she
and some of my friends who had graduated, Bob Hoy
and those, came down to see me and We would like for
the city to
give us, and I may be wrong about the number, it was a
sizable number, out of some funds we had, a grant in
effect to cover the shortage. And I thought about
it. for a while and then in the end I talked to the
council about it and they weren't too interested
because legally we couldn't do it. And she was
pretty upset about it, but at the time I told her, I
said, you know Diana,
do you have a list of your ex-students? She said no.
I said do you ever ask them for money? No. I said, you
know I think it's a little bit improper to come to
ask the citizens of this city when you're not even
asking your own graduates for money. Now, as far as
I know, that is a unique reality for A&M. These
events that join it together, including Muster,
and then for you commencement. Who came to
commencement when you got your degree? Well, when
I graduated the first time, my parents came and a
number of my aunts and uncles from the family, part
of the family in San Antonio. How did you feel
walking across that stage? Oh, I think, I mean, you
know, I've made it. I have not let my family down.
And was it special to hear your name called? and
your hand shaking. That's right. Not get it in the
mail. That's right, that's right. It was there in
your hand. Commencement in your day was held in G.
Raleigh? Yes, it was. They had just built G.
Raleigh. Big. Big, big. Before then, I guess, I
don't know where it was held, in Guyon? I think so.
And what we couldn't think of the other day was P.L.
Downs. Was it the Downs? No, that's an auditorium.
No, the Downs, not an auditorium, was a swimming
deal. Yeah, yeah, that's not the old. No, it's not
the old basketball game. Well, did you feel that
you were, when you graduated, you feel reasonably
well prepared to be a real engineer? I thought I
could lick the world. And you stayed on to do a
graduate degree. Why? I thought that I really
wanted to get a little more specialization. The
electrical engineering department in those days
gave you a pretty broad background, both power and
electronics, as they called it. At the time I
graduated the first time, I was prepared to go to
GE, which I, by the way, did when I graduated. and
reported to building one steam turbine. But I knew
from day one I didn't want to be a power engineer.
But my dad wanted me to do that. And I was only there
three months until I had to report to the Air Force.
And I never went back.
So I decided the best thing I'd do is get a master's
degree. You did a thesis and you did a project in
those days.
And that's what I wanted to do. By the time you
finished that master's degree, were you planning
on being a self-employed engineer? You know, the
day I finished there, I wasn't sure exactly what I
wanted to do. I just knew that I
was going to be self-employed. I didn't think I was
going to be working for somebody. We've
already asked this in a different way. What
creates Aggie spirit, and why are Aggies so loyal?
Well, I think it's the way they are indoctrinated,
the way they relate
to each other for the four or five years they're
there. the the system the program at a m everything
you do builds loyalty comradeship integrity hard
work i think it's those things all put together If
you were to go to City College in New York, right,
you would not see your classmates except in class,
and then you'd go home and you'd never see them
again. You could go to the University of Texas.
There you'd see your classmates a little more, but
there would not be any program to keep you
together, to relate to each other, to depend on
each other. That's very, very true. All right,
this is probably saying the same thing. What did
you learn at A&M that has had a strong effect on your
life? Well, I think the things that I just related.
I think hard work, integrity,
I guess comradeship to a certain extent. But I
think those, I think.
All right, if you were the consultant, selected to
come in and advise the A&M decision makers today
about what they should do more of or less of in the
future to keep A&M moving forward. What advice
would you give them? Well, I think A&M is faced
with, you know, several problems. I think they've
done, in my opinion, almost everything right. I
think their political skills are abysmal and I
don't think you can live in this world and relate to
Austin and Washington because unfortunately
more and more of your success or failure depends on
and I think we've got to do a better job relating
with the political structure. You can't sit in
College Station and say they can't touch me and I'm
not going to worry about them. That's true. I think
the university, and this is damned if they do,
damned if they don't,
the university is going to have to recognize the
Hispanic population in the state.
When you look at the population, and I think A&M has
been, because it is so homogeneous, They've been
able to set goals and stick with them. That's been
the positive side. Whereas if you have this
diverse population, you have too many different
directions that people are tugging to go in. So
their own success may be their own failure
ultimately. They're going to have to recognize
that Hispanic population, especially in
relation to Austin and Washington. And I don't
know. I think once they become more diverse down
there, they're going to start having problems
they haven't had before. And I don't think you're
going to have the things we've talked about for two
or three hours are going to have the significance
or the impact that they used to. And that's sad,
too. uh got a couple more serious questions but
before we get to that do you have a favorite aggie
story amusing or serious or goofy or
any any good bull that you remember you
know i haven't thought about this in so long
oh i some joke that you and some other guys play you
mentioned the the the other night the other
morning you mentioned the uh steam tunnel and
dumping the oh oh yeah but i think everybody did
that uh what about uh babo bombs or putting
something in somebody's room did well i do
remember putting uh we used to um you could you
could break the glass off of a regular
incandescent bulb and you could tie a firecracker
to the filament if it didn't break. Then you could
put it inside a paper sack filled with flour.
That took some engineering. When you turned on the
light switch, kaboom, flour went everywhere. Oh,
I've not heard of that one before. Probably why you
haven't, it took a lot of work. Did that ever happen
in your outfit? Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Alright, then
who got to clean the room up? The freshmen? Well,
first they had to find out who they thought did it.
This happened actually in my sophomore year, and
it took a while to build the thing.
And I imagine some guys hadn't cleaned it up. Those
of us that might have been involved were long gone
to the movie. We weren't around to be found. What
about a serious Aggie story? Do you have a heart
touching one? Well, I'm sure there was.
I thought those two Aggies had crashed their plane
on the drill field at the bonfire, those two
Hensons. That was a tragic situation. Did you know
about the existence of secret fraternities when
you were there? Oh, that was all over, all over the
place. The TTs, and they disbanded them my junior
year. I never knew about them really until it all of
a sudden it boiled up in the battalion. What about
the stickers? Did you know about them? No, I didn't
know anything about them. I never knew anything
about that they even existed until it was in the
battalion. If you were to make a major gift to Texas
A&M, for what purpose would you want that gift
used? I think for the electrical engineering
department. What would you want them to do?
Whatever they decided to do with it. And why do you
feel that grateful to electrical engineering?
Well, I think whatever success I had came from
there.
This is next to the last one. To what A&M former
students, faculty, friends do you feel most
grateful and why? Well, like I said, I feel a
tremendous amount of gratitude to the electrical
engineering faculty, to the college as a whole.
And then I have people like Joe Walker, who was a
classmate of mine at A&M.
I just think that the experience there is, people
are lucky to have been able to partake of. Last
question. What feelings do you carry in your heart
for Texas A&M? Oh, a tremendous amount of love and
respect. I mean,
people, I think it's expressed best with, you
know, it's a religion almost. And people don't
understand that. That's a good point to put on.